# Building the Front End Part 2

We used React and [Chakra Components](https://chakra-ui.com/) to quickly build a react front end.

The full code for our front end client can be [found on our github repo](https://github.com/koinos/1-week-challenge/tree/master/client)

If you arent familiar with react, thats okay, the scaffolding of Fact or Fiction can be used to develop with other frontend  frameworks. We'll brifely go over our work.


# /client/components

We have several stock components that we built quickly with typescript react and chakra that are reused throughout our game pages.

`AnswerOverlay` contains the response to the player if they are correct.

`CircleTimer` is used for the countdown clock. This component uses the `useTimer` located in the `/client/utils` directory.

`Header` is a useful component that gives the player the ability to easily connect their wallet. This component is custom built to include the `KoionsAccountConnector` from the `react-koinos-toolkit`. This can help speed up your development process if you're using react, so we'll look into this component more deeply.

`SitePreferences` is another great tool that can give you darkmode.

`VoteBar` and `Votebutton` are also largely built from chakra and contains effects from the react package.

The main takeaway is that we tried to use existing tools as much as possible.

# /client/pages

We have all of our working pages described earlier. The game page itself is found in `play.tsx` and contains the logic to communicate with our Supabase backend.




